Modernize Node.js + Filebeat ingestion guide for Elastic Stack 9.0 (#3422)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/ingest/ingesting-data-from-applications/ingest-logs-from-nodejs-web-application-using-filebeat.md

To complete these steps you need the following applications installed on your system:

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (LTS or later) - you will set up a simple Node.js web server and client application. Check the Node.js download page for installation instructions.
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat)

::::{tip}
For the three following packages, you can create a working directory to install the packages using the Node package manager (NPM). Then, you can run your Node.js webserver and client from the same directory so that it can use the packages. Alternatively, you can also install the Node packages globally by running the Node package install commands with the `-g` option. Refer to the NPM [package installation instructions](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-packages-globally) for details.
::::

* [winston](https://www.npmjs.com/package/winston) - a popular logging package for Node.js. Create a new, local directory and run the following command to install winston in it:

    ```sh
    npm install winston
    ```

> * The [Elastic Common Schema (ECS) formatter](ecs-logging-nodejs://reference/winston.md) for the Node.js winston logger - this plugin formats your Node.js logs into an ECS structured JSON format ideally suited for ingestion into Elasticsearch. To install the ECS winston logger, run the following command in your working directory so that the package is installed in the same location as the winston package:

Author: Hmm, I don't really see that as easier to read, but ok, I changed the list. It's not harder for sure :)

    ```sh
    npm install @elastic/ecs-winston-format
    ```

* [Got](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) - Got is a "Human-friendly and powerful HTTP request library for Node.js." - this plugin can be used to query the sample web server used in the tutorial. To install the Got package, run the following command in your working directory:

    ```sh
    npm install got
    ```

## Before you begin

> Make sure you have access to an [Elastic Cloud deployment](../../../deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/create-an-elastic-cloud-hosted-deployment.md). You’ll need the **Cloud ID** and credentials to connect Filebeat later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have access to an [Elastic Cloud deployment](/deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/create-an-elastic-cloud-hosted-deployment.md). You’ll need the **Cloud ID** and credentials to connect Filebeat later.
```

    const method = methods[Math.floor(Math.random() * methods.length)]
    const from = addresses[Math.floor(Math.random() * addresses.length)]
    try {
      await got['got'][method]('http://localhost:3000', { headers: { from } })
    } catch (err) {
      console.log("cannot execute request:", err)
    }
    await sleep(Math.random() * 5000 + 2000)
  }
})()
```

This Node.js app generates HTTP requests with a random method of type `GET`, `POST`, or `PUT`, and a random `from` request header using various pretend email addresses. The requests are sent at random intervals between 2 and 7 seconds.

The [Got package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) is used to send the requests, and they are directed to your web server at `http://localhost:3000`. To learn about sending custom headers such as the `from` field used in this example, check [headers](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/0fb6ec60d299fd9b48966608a4c3f201746d821c/documentation/2-options.md#headers) in the Got documentation.

::::

::::{step} Run the traffic generator

In a new terminal window, give the Node.js script a trial run:

```bash
node webrequests.js
```

::::

::::{step} Verify log generation

> After the script has run for about 30 seconds, enter *CTRL + C* to stop it. Have a look at your Node.js `logs/log.json` file. It should contain some entries like this one:

Reviewer: If you want to try it out, you could consider using [docs-builder's keyboard shortcut syntax](https://elastic.github.io/docs-builder/syntax/kbd/) instead of `CTRL + C`, but it's up to you since we definitely aren't using that consistently across the docs right now.

```

Each log entry contains details of the HTTP request. In particular, in this example you can find the timestamp of the request, a request method of type `PUT`, and a request `from` header with the email address `emu@zoo`. Your example will likely be a bit different since the request type and the email address are generated randomly.

::::

::::{step} Stop the Node.js script

After confirming that both `webserver.js` and `webrequests.js` run as expected, enter *CTRL + C* to stop the Node.js script.

::::

:::::

## Get Filebeat

To collect and forward your Node.js application logs to Elastic Cloud, you'll need to set up Filebeat as your log shipper.

:::::{stepper}

::::{step} Download and install Filebeat

[Download Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat) and unpack it on the local server from which you want to collect data.

::::

::::{step} Configure Filebeat to access {{ech}} or {{ece}}

> In *<localpath>/filebeat-<version>/* (where *<localpath>* is the directory where Filebeat is installed and *<version>* is the Filebeat version number), open the `filebeat.yml` configuration file for editing.

Reviewer: Consider formatting directory paths as inline code to signal to the reader that it's not prose. 

```suggestion
In `<localpath>/filebeat-<version>/` (where `<localpath>` is the directory where Filebeat is installed and `<version>` is the Filebeat version number), open the `filebeat.yml` configuration file for editing.
```

```yaml
output.elasticsearch:
  api_key: "id:api_key"
```

::::

:::::

## Start Filebeat

Filebeat comes with predefined assets for parsing, indexing, and visualizing your data. Follow these steps to start Filebeat and begin shipping your Node.js logs to Elasticsearch.

:::::{stepper}

::::{step} Set up Filebeat assets

Load the predefined assets by running the following commands from the Filebeat installation directory:

```bash
./filebeat setup -e
./filebeat -e
```

:::{important}
Depending on variables including the installation location, environment, and local permissions, you might need to [change the ownership](beats://reference/libbeat/config-file-permissions.md) of `filebeat.yml`, or you can disable strict permission checks by running the command with the `--strict.perms=false` option.
:::

::::

::::{step} Handle permission issues (if needed)

If you encounter permissions errors when reading `filebeat.yml`, try disabling the permission check for the configuration file:

```bash
./filebeat -e --strict.perms=false
```

::::

::::{step} Verify data ingestion

Filebeat should begin tailing `logs/log.json` and shipping events to Elasticsearch. To verify the setup:

> 1. [Login to Kibana](../../../deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/access-kibana.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Log in to Kibana](/deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/access-kibana.md).
```

You should see the ingested events.

::::

:::::

## Optional: Use an API key to authenticate

For additional security, instead of using basic authentication you can generate an Elasticsearch API key through the {{ech}} or {{ece}} console, and then configure Filebeat to use the new key to connect securely to your deployment.

:::::{stepper}

::::{step} Open Developer tools

From the {{kib}} main menu, open **Developer tools**.

::::

::::{step} Generate the API key

Enter the following request:

```json
POST /_security/api_key
{
  "name": "filebeat-api-key",
  "role_descriptors": {
    "filebeat_role": {
      "cluster": ["manage_index_templates", "monitor", "read_ilm"],
      "index": [
        {
          "names": ["filebeat-*"],
          "privileges": ["create_index", "write", "read", "manage"]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

::::

::::{step} Execute and copy the API key

The output should be similar to the following:

```json
{
  "id": "yC9C5JkBk-xuk5nSlGlK",
  "name": "filebeat-api-key",
  "api_key": "hGDpbhHEeAUbvNaQlStNlg",
  "encoded": "eUM5QzVKa0JrLXh1azVuU2xHbEs6aEdEcGJoSEVlQVVidk5hUWxTdE5sZw=="
}
```

::::

::::{step} Configure Filebeat to use the API key

> Add your API key information to the *Elasticsearch Output* section of *filebeat.yml*, just below *output.elasticsearch:*. Use the format `<id>:<api_key>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your API key information to the *Elasticsearch Output* section of `filebeat.yml`, just below `output.elasticsearch:`. Use the format `<id>:<api_key>`.
```

:::::{stepper}

::::{step} Launch Filebeat

Launch Filebeat by running the following from the Filebeat installation directory:

```bash
./filebeat -e
```

In this command, the `-e` flag sends output to standard error instead of the configured log output.

::::{note}
If the command doesn’t work as expected, check the [Filebeat quick start](beats://reference/filebeat/filebeat-installation-configuration.md#installation) for OS-specific syntax.
::::

::::

::::{step} Start the Node.js web server

Filebeat should now be running and monitoring the contents of `logs/log.json`. Let's append data to it. Open a new terminal instance and run the `webserver.js` Node.js script:

```bash
node webserver.js
```

::::

::::{step} Generate log traffic

Run the Node.js `webrequests.js` script to send random requests to the Node.js web server:

```bash
node webrequests.js
```

Let the script run for a few minutes. After that, make sure that the `logs/log.json` file is generated as expected and is populated with several log entries.

::::

::::{step} Verify log ingestion in Kibana

The next step is to confirm that the log data has successfully found its way into {{ech}} or {{ece}}:

> 1. [Login to Kibana](../../../deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/access-kibana.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Log in to Kibana](/deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/access-kibana.md).
```

2. Open the {{kib}} main menu, under **Observability** select **Discover**.
3. In the **Data view** dropdown, select **`filebeat-*`**.

You should see the ingested events.

::::

:::::

## Create log visualizations in Kibana [ec-node-logs-view-kibana]

Now you can explore and visualize your ingested log data in Kibana to gain insights from your Node.js application.

To visualize your log data, refer to the [Kibana documentation on creating visualizations](../../../explore-analyze/visualize.md). This ensures you’re using the latest interface for your deployment.

## Clean up

Stop all running processes by pressing `Ctrl + C` in each terminal window.

You can delete temporary files such as the `logs/` directory and the node_modules folder when finished.

> You now know how to monitor log files from a Node.js web application, deliver the log event data securely into an {{ech}} or {{ece}} deployment, and then visualize the results in Kibana in real time. Consult the [Filebeat documentation](beats://reference/filebeat/index.md) to learn more about the ingestion and processing options available for your data.

Reviewer 2: > You now know how to monitor (...)

Sounds like a tongue twist to me 😅. I know it was already there, but I believe it can use some improvement. What about:
```suggestion
You have learned how to monitor log files from a Node.js web application, deliver the log event data securely into an {{ech}} or {{ece}} deployment, and then visualize the results in Kibana in real time. Consult the [Filebeat documentation](beats://reference/filebeat/index.md) to learn more about the ingestion and processing options available for your data.
```

::::

::::{step} Run the traffic generator

In a new terminal window, give the Node.js script a trial run:

```bash
node webrequests.js
```

::::

::::{step} Verify log generation

After the script has run for about 30 seconds, enter *CTRL + C* to stop it. Have a look at your Node.js `logs/log.json` file. It should contain some entries like this one:

```json
{"@timestamp":"2021-09-09T18:42:20.799Z","log.level":"info","message":"handled request","ecs":{"version":"1.6.0"},"http":{"version":"1.1","request":{"method":"POST","headers":{"user-agent":"got (https://github.com/sindresorhus/got)","from":"octopus@the.zoo","accept":"application/json","accept-encoding":"gzip, deflate, br","host":"localhost:3000","connection":"close","content-length":"0"},"body":{"bytes":0}},"response":{"status_code":200,"headers":{"foo":"Bar"}}},"url":{"path":"/","full":"http://localhost:3000/"},"client":{"address":"::ffff:127.0.0.1","ip":"::ffff:127.0.0.1","port":49930},"user_agent":{"original":"got (https://github.com/sindresorhus/got)"}}

> ```

Author: Thanks for catching that!

To verify ingestion is working, check the Filebeat logs for messages like:

```
Successfully published events
```
::::

:::::

## Optional: Use an API key to authenticate

For additional security, instead of using basic authentication you can generate an Elasticsearch API key through the {{ech}} or {{ece}} console, and then configure Filebeat to use the new key to connect securely to your deployment.

:::::{stepper}

::::{step} Access the console

For {{ech}}, log into [{{ecloud}} Console](https://cloud.elastic.co?page=docs&placement=docs-body), or for {{ece}}, log into the admin console.

::::

::::{step} Navigate to Dev Tools

Select the deployment name and go to **☰** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**.

::::

::::{step} Generate the API key

Enter the following request:

```json
POST /_security/api_key
{
 "name": "filebeat-api-key",
 "role_descriptors": {
   "logstash_read_write": {
     "cluster": ["manage_index_templates", "monitor"],
     "index": [
       {
         "names": ["filebeat-*"],
         "privileges": ["create_index", "write", "read", "manage"]
       }
     ]
   }
 }

> }

Author: Thank you, updated!
